README.md, before:

# RP6502 - Enhanced 6502 BASIC

Reference manual and more information archived here:<br>
http://retro.hansotten.nl/6502-sbc/lee-davison-web-site/enhanced-6502-basic/

You must have on your development system:
 * [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/). This has its own installer.
 * A source install of [this CC65](https://github.com/picocomputer/cc65).
 * The following suite of tools for your specific OS.
```
$ sudo apt-get install cmake python3 pip git build-essential
$ pip install pyserial
```

# Initial plotting enhancements for the RP6502 Picocomputer's EhBASIC
Enhancements work with (were originally targetted to) the 20-Dec-2023 EhBASIC in the master
picocomputer repo (rev: 63ca0e6).

Four new commands are available using EhBasic's "CALL" keyword. 
CALL addresses supplied are from the mapfile. 
Plotting command is callable from EhBASIC.
New: two screen dimensions are supported.

The commands are:

    * HGR,screen_dimension - initializes graphics screen mode
       * CALL HGR,0   - selects 320h x 180v x 8bpp mode (16:9 letterbox);
       * CALL HGR,$FF - selects 320h x 240v x 4bpp mode (4:3 fullscreen)
    * HPLOT,x,y,color - paint a pixel of 'color' at x,y on the screen.
    * TEXTMODE - return VGA-screen back to console/text mode
    * CLS (or HOME) - clear the console/text screen.

Assumptions / Limitations:

    * HPLOT targets (only) the two screen-modes listed above on the rp6502's pico-VGA.
    * The x-coordinate from EhBasic is limited to values <= 255 (8-bits). This is a 
      limitation of parameters following the 'CALL' EhBASIC keyword.

Commit message:

Pull in upstream 12 jan 2024 save/load ehancements - try #2 (#9)
* Save and load #1 (#9)

* improve comments

* Merge my EhBasic plotting enhancements with upstream save/load mods. (#8)

* Starting to merge working-demo plotting support to rp6502 picocomputer's ehbasic on rev-commit 8583e72 (of 12-Jan-2024) with its save/load mods.

* Maintains previously tested src files of 20231228; may need CALL-address updates (to verify).

Adding:
A. basgraf.c/h - the new functions, coded in C
B.  rp6502enhance.s - the 'glue' that integrates EhBASIC assembly to four basgraf.c/h functions.

* Update usr.s

usr.s - import of the four new labels F_HGR, F_HPLOT, F_TEXT, F_CLS; and listing them in a function-table.

* Update basic.s - export label: LAB_SCGB

basic.s - add export of needed label: LAB_SCGB - to access parameters of 'CALL' keyword

* Update CMakeLists.txt

...to build new files rp6502enhance.s and basgraf.c.

* Add EhBASIC plot examples. 

Add BarnsleyFern.txt and Mandelbrot.txt - illustrates usage of the plotting enhancements using EhBASIC's 'CALL' command.

* Additional info in README.md

* Update README.md

* 2 add 320h240v 4bitcolor support (#4)

* Update basgraf.c - comments only

* Update basgraf.h - add two canvas-mode-defines

* add support for 320h x 240v x 4-bit-color

* Update README.md for two screen dimension modes

* Update README.md - fixed typo

* Update BarnsleyFern and Mandelbrot basic sources with new CALL addresses.

* Update README.md

* fix backspace at start of line

---------

Co-authored-by: rumbledethumps <16963588+rumbledethumps@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# RP6502 - Enhanced 6502 BASIC

Reference manual and more information archived here:<br>
http://retro.hansotten.nl/6502-sbc/lee-davison-web-site/enhanced-6502-basic/

You must have on your development system:
 * [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/). This has its own installer.
 * A source install of [this CC65](https://github.com/picocomputer/cc65).
 * The following suite of tools for your specific OS.
```
$ sudo apt-get install cmake python3 pip git build-essential
$ pip install pyserial
```

# Initial plotting enhancements for the RP6502 Picocomputer's EhBASIC

Plotting-enhancements work with the 12&13-Jan-2024 EhBASIC+save/load in the master
picocomputer repo (rev: 8583e72).


Four new commands are available using EhBasic's "CALL" keyword. 
CALL addresses supplied are from the mapfile. 
Plotting command is callable from EhBASIC.

Two plotting screen dimensions are supported.


The commands are:

    * HGR,screen_dimension - initializes graphics screen mode
       * CALL HGR,0   - selects 320h x 180v x 8bpp mode (16:9 letterbox);
       * CALL HGR,$FF - selects 320h x 240v x 4bpp mode (4:3 fullscreen)
    * HPLOT,x,y,color - paint a pixel of 'color' at x,y on the screen.
    * TEXTMODE - return VGA-screen back to console/text mode
    * CLS (or HOME) - clear the console/text screen.

Assumptions / Limitations:

    * HPLOT targets (only) the two screen-modes listed above on the rp6502's pico-VGA.
    * The x-coordinate from EhBasic is limited to values <= 255 (8-bits). This is a 
      limitation of parameters following the 'CALL' EhBASIC keyword.
